---
author: hzmangel
categories:
- Happy coding
date: '2012-04-28T11:34:51'
tags:
- Programming
- ruby
title: Ruby learning log
---
Just studied Ruby with the tutorial on website <a href="http://rubylearning.com/" target="_blank">rubylearning.com</a> in the past week, and here are some knowledge gained those days.<!--more-->#### General

  * Ruby is free format and case sensitive.
  * Besides commenting one line code with leading #, Ruby can use `=being` and `=end` to define a comment block.
  * Everything in Ruby is object. Which means 1.5 means a float number but 1.times can generate a enumerator.
  * Ruby use `nil` to indicate a NULL object
  * Only `false` and `nil` is false. Be careful, you have to face the fact that `if 0` will do not enter else branch in Ruby, which is different with other language I have learned.
  * There is no `++` and `--` in Ruby, you can work around with `+=1` and `-=1` sometimes.
  * Constant name must start with capital letter, and local variable must start with lowercase letter or underscore(`_`). Program can not be executed if name do not obey this rule (hmm... Python use force indent, while Ruby use force name type).
  * In Ruby, constant, class and module are all treated as constant, so must follow the constant name rule.
  * Parentheses are optional while defining or calling function, so all the code following is legal:
    
    
    foobar
    foobar()
    
    
    foobar(a, b, c)
    foobar a, b, c
    
    
    def foo bar
        puts bar
    end
    
    def foo(bar)
        puts bar
    end

  * `.to_i`, `.to_f` and `.to_s` are used to convert object to integer, float and string.
  * You can insert underscore(_) in integer number to make it more readable.

#### Variable and method

  * Global, local, instance and class variable are defined in different way
  * Variable with prefix `$` means global variable
  * Variable with prefix `@` means instant variable in class, like `self.var` in Python
  * Variable with prefix `@@` means the class variable, like static variable in C++
  * Ruby also include some built in variable:
  * `$0` means the filename.
  * `$:` means search path, which is a list, like the `sys.path` in Python.
  * `$$` means the process id.
  * Usually, a variable can be assigned default value with this syntax: `var ||= `
  * Only `?`, `!` and `=` can be used as suffix to the method
  * method name ends with `?` means this method will return boolean value.
  * method name ends with `!` means this method will do changes on original object instead of creating new copy.
  * method name ends with `=` can used to define operator.
  * If no `return` at last of function, the value of last expression will be returned as return value.
  * Argument of method can be defined as `*args`, which means the method can accept uncertain number of argument.
  * Seems there is no `**args` in Ruby, arguments passed with `*args` will lost information of argument name. The `**args` used in Python method can accept argument with name.
  * `alias` can be used to define a alias for a method/operator/global var/regular expression back-ref, but not local var/class var/constant. The object pointed by new name will NOT updated after updating old one.

#### String

  * Ruby use `puts` to print string to screen, and `gets` to receive string from standard input.
  * `puts` is used like a keyword, but actually it is a method defined in Ruby kernel
  * `puts` method will invoke `to_s` method of an object
  * Strings fetched with `gets` will usually be tidied by `chomp` method
  * You can use `+` to connect string. Like Python, it will create a new string object, so the performance may downgrade if connecting too may string with `+`
  * String defined by single quota and double quota are different. A string defined by single quota only convert `\\\\` to `\\`, which means `'a\\\n'` == `'a\n'`, and all the three character will be printed out with `puts`. While the double quota will convert all escape string, further more, it will also handle the expression interpolation `#{}`.
  * There are three methods to compare string, `==`, `eql?` and `equal?`. The first two methods compare string content while the last one compares object id.
  * A magic keyword `%w` can be used to build string array, like this: %w{ab cd ef gh \n} == ["ab", "cd", "ef", "gh", "\\\n"].

#### Flow control and code block

  * `if..else..end`, and the else if is written as `elsif` in Ruby. (hmm... we have `else if`, `elseif` and `elif` yet, and now we have `elsif`, seems we only need elf now).
  * There is reverse if, named `unless`, help to write complex logic?
  * There is `cond ? a : b` operator in Ruby.
  * There is a switch-case model in Ruby, `case..when..else..end`
  * Code blocks are defined in `{ }` (single line) or `do..end` (multiple line). The `{ }` has higher precedence than `do..end`.
  * Code block followed by function will be executed after `yield` called in the function.
  * Can pass argument to block by passing argument to `yield`.
  * Method `block_given?` can be used in function to check whether this function has block followed.

#### Array, range and hash

  * Seems there is no index error in Ruby, you will get `nil` if try to access element out of array size.
  * `ARGV` means command line arguments, which is an array.
  * Range can be generated via `a..b` or `a...b`, the list generated with three dots do not contain `b`.
  * `.to_a` method can convert a range object to array.
  * There is a `===` operator in range object, check whether the element is included in range.
  * Name start with `:` is a symbol, which is unique in global.
  * There is a symbol table in Ruby, which contains function, class variable (variable start with `@`) and user defined symbol. `Symbol.all_symbols` can be used to get all symbol name, w/o colon.
  * Symbol can not be used as a left value. It is just a symbol, can be used as right value.
  * For string comparison and hash index, a temp string will create a new object each time, which may reduce the performance.
  * There is a `to_s` method for symbol, and a `to_sym` method for string.
  * Save information in string if take more concern on content, and symbol for object id.
  * Hash (dict in python) can use any object as key, which is different with Python.
  * It is recommended to use symbol to replace the string index
  * Hash can be defined via `{key: val}` or `{key =&gt; val}`. If using the first method, the `key` can not be a string, but a name obey the variable rule, and Ruby will convert it to symbol. That is: {a: 2} == {:a =&gt; 2}

#### File

  * Usual way for using File: `File.open() do |f| .. end`
  * Can define file encoding and internal encoding in the open command, which is better than built-in `open` of Python
  * `Find.find()` will traverse the directory, include sub directory.
  * `File.new()` can open a random access file, which can response to `.seek` method.

#### Regular expression

  * Pattern enclosed by slash is an regular expression object, `/foobar/`
  * Both string and regular expression has match method. RE use `match` while string use `=~`.
  * `.match` in RE will return `MatchData` object of matched, or `nil` for not found.
  * `=~` in string will return index if found, or `nil` for not found.

#### Class

  * class is a first-class object in Ruby, which is an object of Class.
  * As mentioned before, the class name must has first character uppercased.
  * Create a new object with `ClassName.new`, which will invoke `allocate` method to allocate space and `initalize` method for initialization.
  * Variable with prefix `@` is class variable, which can be used in the whole object, seems like the `self.` variable in Python, but in Ruby, name with `self.` must function, then, the first character must be uppercased.
  * `methods` method can be used to printed out all methods in class, like the `dir` in Python.
  * `responsed_to?` method can be used to check whether the method exists in the object. If not, Ruby first will check whether there is `method_mission` method first, and then throw exception of not found.
  * Every class in Ruby is open, which means you can update any class, include built-in class like string, at anytime. But make sure you will not bring the conflict into exist class.
  * A more safer way is define a sub-class, and override the needed method.
  * In Ruby, one class can only be inherit from a single class. However, module can be used as multi inherit, seems like the interface in Java.
  * If calling `super` in one class, the method in parent class will be executed, but different syntax can cause different result:
  * Calling `super` with no parentheses, then the argument in sub method will be passed to parent method.
  * Calling `super` with empty parentheses, then the default value of parent method will be used, and error will be reported if no default value defined.
  * Calling `super` with value, then pass this value to parent method.
  * Abstract class, seems more like syntax sugar. Calling undefined method in parent class, and implement the method in subclass.
  * The default access rule for method in class is public, can add protect/private before def if needed.
  * Those access type can be only applied to method, the instance/class variable is private by default.

#### Proc

  * Like lambda in Python, but named Proc in Ruby.
  * Each code block created by `lambda` is a object of `Proc` class, which can be executed by calling `.call` method.
  * Here is a example for lambda with argument: `lambda {|x| "Hello #{x}"}`.call "Hell"`

#### Load and require

  * `load` and `require` are methods defined in `Object`, but more like a keyword during usage.
  * File included by `load` will be loaded every time program executed, while `require` only once.
  * Pass filename w/o suffix to `require`, and `require` will find the file in the path. If the suffix is rb, then imported as source file. For library suffix, like .so, .dll, `require` will import them as Ruby extension.
  * `require` will return `true` or `false` after execution complete.

#### Exception

  * A special class, user can throw it via `raise`.
  * Default exception type is `RuntimeError`, but can be changed by passing class name to `raise`
  * Use `rescue` to handle the exception.