---
author: hzmangel
categories:
- Happy coding
date: '2012-05-07T00:51:32'
tags:
- Programming
- rails
- ruby
title: RoR learning log (1)
---
Just back from vacation, so the study log for this week is simple.<!--more-->### Build development environment

The whole process is tested on Mac OS, and I think this may have little
difference with Linux.

Ruby should be installed before trying Rails. To separate with the Ruby used
by system, it is recommended to use RVM (Ruby version manager) to build the
local Ruby environment (seems like the virtualenv in Python). Here is the
install script from [RVM installing page](https://rvm.io//rvm/install/)

    
    
    $ curl -L get.rvm.io | bash -s stable
    $ source ~/.rvm/scripts/rvm
    $ rvm requirements
    $ rvm install 1.9.3
    

After installing, the command `rvm use` can be used to select the version of
Ruby.

Next per-requisite is gem, which can be get from [this
page](http://rubyforge.org/frs/?group_id=126)

Then we can use gem to install rails

    
    
    gem install rails
    

### A simple TODO list

This section will implement a todo list application, which is copied from
[bottle tutorial page](http://bottlepy.org/docs/dev/tutorial_app.html). Here
is the goal copied from that page:

> At the end of this tutorial, we will have a simple, web-based ToDo list. The
list contains a text (with max 100 characters) and a status (0 for closed, 1
for open) for each item. Through the web-based user interface, open items can
be view and edited and new items can be added.

This log only create the default controller, and some other thing such as
adding validator and modifying template will be shown in next log.

First, we have to create the directory for application. We named the
application to `todo_app`, and we run this command to do the initialization:

    
    
    $ rails new todo_app
    

After plenty of output message, we have a new directory named todo_app, and
the directory structure has been initialized in it. After running `rails
server` in the directory, we can access the default website via
http://127.0.0.1:3000

Next step is generate database schema for this application. As mentioned
above, the schema contains two fields, one is record content, the other is
status of record. Rails provide a generator script to simplify the operation.

    
    
    $ rails generate scaffold ToDo content:string status:integer
    

Then use rake command to migrate the database

    
    
    $ rake db:migrate
    

This script will generate URL mapping, model and default view for the ToDo
table. You can use http://127.0.0.1:3000/to_dos to access the new added things
(You can check the config/routes.rb to find the correct mapping). There is no
data currently, but there is a link to add new record, which is linked to
http://127.0.0.1:3000/to_dos/new. And after record added, there will be show,
edit and destroy action to each record.

The controller, view and model is saved in app directory. The file
app/controllers/to_dos_controller.rb will handle the request sent from
browser, the file app/models/to_do.rb is the model of ToDo record, and the
files under app/views/to_dos/ will show the returned record. In this demo
project, we need add some validation while adding ToDo record, and modify the
list page for updating the ToDo record.

For now, there is a simple web application, can use generated
view/controller/model to manager ToDo list. In the next log, this application
will have a validator and new template.