---
author: hzmangel
categories:
- Happy coding
date: '2012-05-07T23:57:16'
tags:
- Programming
- rails
- ruby
title: RoR learning log (2)
---
This article will finish the ToDo web application, and the prime area in this
article is adding validator and updating templates.

Here is [to RoR learning log (1)](http://www.hzmangel.info/blog/archives/1113)<!--more-->According to the requirements, the length of ToDo account should less than 100
characters and the status of ToDo can only be chosen from 0 or 1, so some
validator should be added to the model. With the validator, the model code
should be looked like:

    
    
    STATUS_OPTION = [0, 1]
    
    class ToDo < ActiveRecord::Base
      attr_accessible :content, :status
      validates :content, :presence => true,
                          :length => { maximum: 100 }
      validates :status, :presence => true,
                         :numericality => { :only_integer => true },
                         :inclusion => { :in => STATUS_OPTION }
    end
    

Statements started with `validates` keyword are validator. The available
condition list can be checked at [this
page](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/active_record_validations_callbacks.html).
If the value passed in break the rule, the error message will be shown in the
page.

With the validators, the value saved can be guaranteed to be correct. But
seems radio box or drop down box is better than the text field, so we plan to
modify the template page. The template is placed under `app/views/to_dos`
directory, which is a HTML file with some template control commands. By
default, when viewing the URL http://[address]/index, the template with the
same name, index.html.erb, will be rendered. The generated form is saved in
file `_form.html.erb`, the default type of status is `number_field`, which
should be updated to `select`. The document for `select` is [here](http://api.
rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers/FormOptionsHelper.html#M001593),
according the document, the option list should be provided, and here we can
use the constant `STATUS_OPTION` defined in model file. Here is the updated
`status` field in the form object:

    
    
    
    
    
      <%= f.label :status %>  
    
      <%= f.select :status, ToDo::STATUS_OPTION %>
    
    
    
    

The form type will change from text field to drop down menu after updating the
form.

Congratulations, a simple ToDo application has been worked out. It is a very
simple application, which do not contain the static files, user
authentication, unit test and so on. In next step, I plan to re-write the
[linuxfb](http://www.linuxfb.org) website with more better structure, hope can
touch more features in RoR.