---
author: hzmangel
categories:
- Happy coding
date: '2012-05-11T11:40:52'
tags:
- Programming
- rails
- tools
title: Deploy RoR application with Nginx
---
This article will talk something about deploying RoR application to local and remote nginx server.<!--more-->### Deploy RoR on local machine

Like deploying other website, the static file is served via nginx, and the
Ruby logic will be handled via some middle-wares, here is the list:

#### Thin

  1. Install the `thin` via `homebrew`
    
         gem install thin
    

  2. Start the thin server. Since this is a testing deploy, I just execute thin in the project directory.
    
         thin start
    

After the command executed, you can find some information printed via `thin`
command. The default port of the server is _3000_, which should be used to
fill the nginx configuration file.

  3. Update the configuration file for nginx. The `upstream` section should be put in `http` block.
    
         upstream todo_app {
         server http://127.0.0.1:3000
     }
    

The `location` section should be put in `server` block.

    
         location / {
         proxy_set_header  X-Real-IP  $remote_addr;
         proxy_set_header  X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
         proxy_set_header  Host $http_host;
         proxy_redirect    off;
    
         try_files $uri $uri/index.html $uri.html @ruby;     
     }
    
     location @ruby {
         proxy_pass http://todo_app
     }
    

The `proxy_pass` will pass all ruby request to the upstream server. `Unix
socket` can also be used in the `upstream` section.

  4. Restart the nginx server, the RoR project can be shown in the web browser now.

#### Passenger

  1. Install passenger via gem
    
         gem install passenger
    

  2. Install passenger module for nginx
    
         passenger-install-nginx-module
    

Or you can install nginx and passenger module with brew like this

    
         brew install nginx --with-passenger
    

If nginx still report the error that can not find the `PassengerLoggingAgent`,
try to use `passenger package-runtime` and then get the agent from package
`passenger-standalone/XXX/support.tar.gz`

In the _http_ section, you should specify the value of `passenger_root` and
`passenger_ruby`. Here is the configuration in my laptop:

    
         passenger_root /usr/local/lib/ruby/gems/1.9.1/gems/passenger-3.0.12;
     passenger_ruby /usr/local/bin/ruby;
    

**NOTICE:** Make sure to set `rails_env` variable is set to the same stage with development, seems the default value is `production`. Here is my configuration section in nginx:
    
         passenger_root /usr/local/lib/ruby/gems/1.9.1/gems/passenger-3.0.12;
     passenger_ruby /usr/local/bin/ruby;
    
     server {
         listen       8080;
         server_name  localhost;
         root /Users/ziming/tmp/learn_rb/rails/todo_app/public;
         passenger_enabled on;
         rails_env development;
     }
    

#### Unicorn

  1. Install unicorn via gem
    
         gem install unicorn
    

  2. Get the sample configuration file from unicorn website
    
         curl -o config/unicorn.rb https://raw.github.com/defunkt/unicorn/master/examples/unicorn.conf.rb
    

And update the `working_directory`, `pid`, `stderr_path` and `stdout_path` in
the sample configuration file. **NOTICE**: Need absolute path here.

  3. The left step is the same with Thin, a `upstream` section should be added to nginx.conf, and redirection should be added to `location` section.

### Deploy remotely via Capistrano

Capistrano is a useful tool for deploying RoR application to remote server(s).
The Capistrany package provides several tasks for simplfying the deploying
jobs.

  1. Prepare the RoR application

Before deploying, we should prepare the application. Since this only show how
to deploy, so we just use the generated project. I have create a repository on
bitbucket, and the scm used for this application is mercurial.

First I create the repository DailyCheckIn on butbucket, then I clone the
project to local directory `dailycheckin`. The directory is an empty directory
except some mercurial information. After directory ready, I create RoR
application via `rails new` command. Before doing the initialization commit, I
should create a `.hgignore` file based on the `.gitignore` (Just add `syntax:
glob` at the first line, remove the leader slash in the path, and rename
`.gitignore` to `.hgignore`). After all things done, commit the new added file
and push to the server, then we have a RoR application.

  2. Capify the RoR project

The project should be 'capified' before deplying via Captistrano, which can be
done via command `capify .` easily. This command will create `Capfile` and
`config/deploy.rb` file in current directory. The `Capfile` is the wrapper,
and the tasks is written in file `deploy.rb`

  3. Configure the Capistrano

Here are the information should be checked before deploying:

    * Application name
    * Server information 
      * Application layer
      * Wer server
      * Database
    * SCM information 
      * Repository location
      * SCM type
    * Directory the project should be deployed to

Here is a sample configuration file for the project

    
        set :application, "DailyCheckIn"
    set :repository,  
    set :scm, :mercurial
    server , :web, :app, :db, :primary => true
    set :deploy_to, 
    set :use_sudo, false
    

The detailed information of configuration can be found in [Capistrano
document](https://github.com/capistrano/capistrano/wiki/2.x-From-The-
Beginning).

  4. Deploy the application

Next step is deploy the application. The first step is setting up the server,
Capistrano provide task `cap deploy:setup` to do this. This task will do a
series of `mkdir` calls. Make sure the permission of directory.

After setting up completed, it is recommended to check the dependencies via
`cap deploy:check` command. Re-run this command after any change to the
environment to make sure all check passed.

The next step should be done manually, you should login to the server and make
sure the database can meet the requirement configured in the
`config/database.yml` file.

After environment ready, task `deploy:update` can be used to clone the code to
server. The clone operation will create a new snapshot in the `releases`
directory, and link it with symbol link `current` in top level of depoly
directory. Then `cap deploy:start` can be used to start the services.