---
author: hzmangel
categories:
- Happy coding
date: '2013-01-24T09:41:13'
tags:
- ObjC
- Programming
title: Compile Object-C program in command line
---
Recently I am working on an iOS project, and I am getting interested in the
language itself. But it is inconvenient to start Xcode for each program,
especially for program without UI elements in. So I want to set up a command
line environment that can compile and execute ObjC program.<!--more-->### Prepare the code

First I have to prepare the ObjC file. I have created one file called
_helloworld.m_ in current directory, and here is the content:

    
    
    #import <Foundation/Foundation.h>
    
    int main (int argc, const char * argv[]) {
        NSAutoreleasePool * pool = [[NSAutoreleasePool alloc] init];
        NSLog (@"Hello World!");
    
        [pool drain];
        return 0;
    }
    

Okay, the program does the same thing as the first program of other languages
do: print out **Hello World!** string.

### Compile and execute the program

#### Mac OS

I have installed Xcode before, so I don't know whether those commands can be
run successfully without Xcode command line tools.

There are two methods to compile ObjC program from command line in Mac OS, one
is using `gcc` and the other one is using `clang`. Both commands below can
generate ObjC executable file.

    
    
    clang -framework Foundation helloworld.m -o helloworld_clang
    
    gcc -framework Foundation helloworld.m -o helloworld_gcc
    

On my side, the two binary file has the same size, and the execute results are
the same except the timestamp:

    
    
    $ ./helloworld_clang
    2013-01-24 01:56:27.009 helloworld_clang[7845:707] Hello World!
    
    $ ./helloworld_gcc
    2013-01-24 01:56:29.744 helloworld_gcc[7846:707] Hello World!
    

#### Linux

With GCC, the command line compilation can also be done on Linux platform. I
am using Debian and have set up the environment after refering [this
post](http://stpetrus27.wordpress.com/2011/06/20/compile-objective-c-programs-
on-linux/). Here are the brief steps:

First Install those packages first to prepare the environment.

    
    
    sudo apt-get install gobjc gnustep gnustep-devel
    

Then compile the program with command listed below:

    
    
    gcc `gnustep-config --objc-flags` helloworld.m -o helloworld_gcc `gnustep-config --objc-libs` -lgnustep-base
    

After the command return, you can find binary file `helloworld_gcc` in the
same directory.

So, with this feature, some simple program can be executed without running
Xcode, a little convenient for language learning for me.