---
author: hzmangel
categories:
- Happy coding
date: '2013-02-10T00:06:18'
tags:
- iOS
- Programming
title: '@property and its attributes'
---
Recently working on iOS project, and have met some problems while using the
attributes of `@property`. I have searched some documents and here is my idea
about this.<!--more-->### What is `@property`

So, first thing is to talk about the `@property`. This will offer a way to
encapsulate the class. With the @synthesize keyword, the compiler will
generate a getter and setter function for the variable. For example, there is
a class called FooTester, which contains a variable named foo, so here is
piece of the code:

    
    
    // Definiation
    @interface FooTester : NSObject
    @property int foo;
    @end
    
    // Implementation
    @implementation PropertyTester
    @synthesize foo;
    @end
    

In this case, the compiler will generate setter and getter for variable `foo`,
like this:

    
    
    - (int) foo {
        return foo;
    }
    
    - (void) setFoo:(int) i {
        foo = i;
    }
    

It is really a great function, which brings lots of convenience to
development. Also, it can accept various attributes as its parameter, which is
describing below.

### Attributes of `@property`

The full syntax for @property is

    
    
    @property (<#attribute_list>) <#variable_type> <#variable_name>
    

The attributes is used to define some behavior of the variable.

#### _readonly_ and _readwrite_

As the meaning of the word, those two attributes are used to control read-
write access of the property, while `readwrite` is the default value.

#### _atomic_ and _nonatomic_

`atomic` and `nonatomic` attributes are used to indicate whether the setter
and getter function returns the whole value of variable. With `atomic`, the
synthesized getter and setter function will be guaranteed. For example, there
two thread A and B, thread A is getting value in middle while thread B is
setting value to the object. If the variable is declared with `atomic`, the
value returned to A should be a complete one, which means there is impossible
to return a object combines the old and new value. Most likely, the getter
will generate a auto-release copy and then return it.

There is no this guarantee for `nonatomic` property.

One more thing need to be aware is the `atomic` do _not_ guarantee thread
safety. It just guarantee the variable has atomic access. For example, if
thread A, B and C are setting the variable to different value at almost same
time, then the value of variable is unpredictable.

The default attribute is `atomic`, in case `nonatomic` is specified in the
`@property` declaration. And generally speaking, in `nonatomic` case, the
getter and setter function will a little more faster.

#### _assign_, _copy_ and _retain_

Those three attributes are related to memory management, which are used for
control behavior of setters. The `assign` attribute is a simple assignment,
without any other operations. The `copy` attribute means the setter will
assign the copy of the value to the object variable. The `retain` attribute
means it will assign the pointer to the object variable.

Hmm... It is really confusion, so let's write some code to make it more
clearly.

First, we need a class with those property type, here are the declaration and
implementation:

    
    
    #import <Foundation/Foundation.h>
    
    @interface PropertyTester : NSObject
    
    @property (assign) NSMutableString *str_assign;
    @property (copy) NSMutableString *str_copy;
    @property (retain) NSMutableString *str_retain;
    
    @end
    

-
    
    
    #import "property.h"
    
    @implementation PropertyTester
    
    @synthesize str_assign;
    @synthesize str_copy;
    @synthesize str_retain;
    
    @end
    

Then we have to prepare some code to test the class. I have written two simple
code to test this class, one is focusing on the memory and the other is about
reference count.

Here comes the program for memory:

    
    
    #import <Foundation/Foundation.h>
    #import "property.h"
    
    int main (int argc, const char * argv[])
    {
        NSAutoreleasePool * pool = [[NSAutoreleasePool alloc] init];
    
        PropertyTester *property_tester = [[PropertyTester alloc] init];
        NSMutableString *tmp_str = [NSMutableString stringWithFormat:@"first"];
    
        property_tester.str_assign = tmp_str;
        property_tester.str_copy = tmp_str;
        property_tester.str_retain = tmp_str;
    
        NSLog (@"%p, %@", tmp_str, tmp_str);
        NSLog (@"%@", property_tester);
    
        [tmp_str appendString:@"second"];
    
        NSLog (@"%p, %@", tmp_str, tmp_str);
        NSLog (@"%@", property_tester);
    
        [pool drain];
        return 0;
    }
    

The logic for this program is simple. I created a `NSMutableString` object
named `tmp_str` and assign it to three different type of property variables,
then update the object. The information for class object will be printed out
for examination. I have overloaded the `description` of class to show some
internal information, so the output of the program is:

    
    
    2013-02-08 16:39:14.557 property_update[66361:707] 0x10fa15030, first
    2013-02-08 16:39:14.580 property_update[66361:707] PropertyTester: 0x10fa11b70
        assign: 0x10fa15030, first 
        copy: 0x10fa14e80, first 
        retain: 0x10fa15030, first
    2013-02-08 16:39:14.580 property_update[66361:707] 0x10fa15030, firstsecond
    2013-02-08 16:39:14.581 property_update[66361:707] PropertyTester: 0x10fa11b70
        assign: 0x10fa15030, firstsecond 
        copy: 0x10fa14e80, first 
        retain: 0x10fa15030, firstsecond
    

According to the screen log, the object `tmp_str` has initialized value
`first`, while the memory address is `0x10fa15030`. After the assignment
operations, three variables all contains the same value of `tmp_str`, but the
memory address of `str_copy` is different with original one. Then the original
string `tmp_str` updates its value to `firstsecond`, while the value for
variable `str_assign` and `str_retain` has also updated, but not the
`str_copy`.

As mentioned above, the `assign` will do simple assignment, while `retain`
will assign the pointer, which is shown in the screen log. The two variable
has the same value and memory address with original string, and will be
updated if original string updated. However, `copy` means assing a copied
value to the property, so it contains different memory address, and will no
update if original object updated.

Now let's use another program to show difference between `assign` and
`retain`. The prime difference between `assign` and `retain` is reference
count, I will use `retainCount` in the program to get the reference count.
Here is the program:

    
    
    #import <Foundation/Foundation.h>
    #import "property.h"
    
    void print_ref_cnt(NSObject *obj1, NSObject *obj2, void (^block)(void)) {
        NSLog(@"====================");
        NSLog(@"Reference count of %@", obj1);
        NSLog(@"Before: obj1: %ld, obj2: %ld", (unsigned long)obj1.retainCount, (unsigned long)obj2.retainCount);
        block();
        NSLog(@"After : obj1: %ld, obj2: %ld", (unsigned long)obj1.retainCount, (unsigned long)obj2.retainCount);
        NSLog(@"@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@");
    }
    
    int main (int argc, const char * argv[]) {
        NSAutoreleasePool * pool = [[NSAutoreleasePool alloc] init];
    
        PropertyTester *property_tester = [[PropertyTester alloc] init];
        NSMutableString *tmp_str_assign = [NSMutableString stringWithFormat:@"assign"];
        NSMutableString *tmp_str_copy = [NSMutableString stringWithFormat:@"copy"];
        NSMutableString *tmp_str_retain = [NSMutableString stringWithFormat:@"retain"];
    
        NSLog(@"\n\n\nAssign");
        print_ref_cnt(tmp_str_assign, property_tester.str_assign, ^(void) { property_tester.str_assign = tmp_str_assign; });
        //print_ref_cnt(tmp_str, ^(void) { property_tester.str_assign.release; }); // Over release, seg fault
    
        NSLog(@"\n\n\nCopy");
        print_ref_cnt(tmp_str_copy, property_tester.str_copy, ^(void) { property_tester.str_copy = tmp_str_copy; });
    
        NSLog(@"\n\n\nRetain");
        print_ref_cnt(tmp_str_retain, property_tester.str_retain, ^(void) { property_tester.str_retain = tmp_str_retain; });
    
        NSLog (@"%@", property_tester);
    
        [pool drain];
        return 0;
    }
    

The logic for this program is also simple, it creates three objects which will
be used for `assign`, `copy` and `retain` separatedly, then the program will
print out the reference count before and after invoking the setter function.
Here is the result of the program:

    
    
    2013-02-09 10:18:57.058 property_ref[67671:707] 
    
    
    Assign
    2013-02-09 10:18:57.060 property_ref[67671:707] ====================
    2013-02-09 10:18:57.060 property_ref[67671:707] Reference count of assign
    2013-02-09 10:18:57.061 property_ref[67671:707] Before: obj1: 1, obj2: 0
    2013-02-09 10:18:57.062 property_ref[67671:707] After : obj1: 1, obj2: 0
    2013-02-09 10:18:57.062 property_ref[67671:707] @@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@
    2013-02-09 10:18:57.063 property_ref[67671:707] 
    
    
    Copy
    2013-02-09 10:18:57.064 property_ref[67671:707] ====================
    2013-02-09 10:18:57.064 property_ref[67671:707] Reference count of copy
    2013-02-09 10:18:57.064 property_ref[67671:707] Before: obj1: 1, obj2: 0
    2013-02-09 10:18:57.065 property_ref[67671:707] After : obj1: 1, obj2: 0
    2013-02-09 10:18:57.065 property_ref[67671:707] @@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@
    2013-02-09 10:18:57.066 property_ref[67671:707] 
    
    
    Retain
    2013-02-09 10:18:57.066 property_ref[67671:707] ====================
    2013-02-09 10:18:57.067 property_ref[67671:707] Reference count of retain
    2013-02-09 10:18:57.067 property_ref[67671:707] Before: obj1: 1, obj2: 0
    2013-02-09 10:18:57.067 property_ref[67671:707] After : obj1: 2, obj2: 0
    2013-02-09 10:18:57.068 property_ref[67671:707] @@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@
    2013-02-09 10:18:57.068 property_ref[67671:707] PropertyTester: 0x10b714760
        assign: 0x10b715020, assign 
        copy: 0x7fe234101390, copy 
        retain: 0x10b715150, retain
    

For the `assign`, the reference count for class object doesn't change, while
for `retain`, the reference count increased 1 after invoking setter function,
since the `@property` with `retain` will invoke `retain` before assignment.

#### _weak_ and _strong_

Another two attributes are `weak` and `string`, which is introduced from ARC
feature. The attribute `strong` is the same with `retain`. While the attribute
`weak` is almost same with `assign`. The minor difference between `weak` and
`assign` is that the `weak` will set object to nil after releasing, which is
missed in `assign` attribute.