---
author: hzmangel
categories:
- Happy coding
date: '2013-03-12T00:06:08'
tags:
- iOS
- Programming
title: iOS Code Snippets - UITableView
---
Just created a project on BitBucket to save some iOS code snippets, and the first project is a simple UITableViewController one. The code is placed at http://goo.gl/0ZrcA. The text above is the introduction text for that project, please reference the code for detailed information.<!--more--># SimpleTableView

This app is used to describe some basic feature of `UITableView` in iOS
framework, here is some points of this app:

## A tabbed view

This app shows three different UITableViewController objects, which is
organized by tabbed view. The table view of this app is created
programmatically, which is built by this code segment in file `AppDelegate.m`.

    
    
    - (BOOL)application:(UIApplication *)application didFinishLaunchingWithOptions:(NSDictionary *)launchOptions
    {
        self.window = [[UIWindow alloc] initWithFrame:[[UIScreen mainScreen] bounds]];
        // Override point for customization after application launch.
    
        UIViewController *vc_simple_table = [[SimpleTableViewController alloc] initWithNibName:@"SimpleTableViewController" bundle:nil];
        UIViewController *vc_section_table = [[SectionTableViewController alloc] initWithNibName:@"SectionTableViewController" bundle:nil];
        UIViewController *vc_grouped_table = [[GroupedTableViewController alloc] initWithNibName:@"GroupedTableViewController" bundle:nil];
    
        self.tab_bar = [[UITabBarController alloc] init];
        self.tab_bar.viewControllers = @[vc_simple_table, vc_section_table, vc_grouped_table];
    
        [self.window addSubview:self.tab_bar.view];
        [self.window makeKeyAndVisible];
        return YES;
    }
    

**NOTICE**: `setRootView` for `self.window` can't add show the tabbed view in app, not sure why currently.

## Read data from text file

The data source of the list is fetched from a text file by this code segment:

    
    
    NSArray *table_data;
    
    // Country list
    NSString *fileText = [NSString stringWithContentsOfFile:[[NSBundle mainBundle] pathForResource:@"country_list" ofType:@"txt"] encoding:NSMacOSRomanStringEncoding error:nil];
    table_data = [fileText componentsSeparatedByString:@"\n"];
    

## Build table view

Now the prime task, build table view. I have created three types of list, the
plain, sectioned, and grouped. I want to apply it to some earlier version of
iOS device, so haven't use the storyboard. By the way, there is a [document](h
ttp://developer.apple.com/library/ios/#documentation/userexperience/conceptual
/tableview_iphone/AboutTableViewsiPhone/AboutTableViewsiPhone.html#//apple_ref
/doc/uid/TP40007451-CH1-SW1) on apple development center which can give more
information.

### Plain table view

This is the simplest table view, and here is my step:

  1. Create a Object C class, with xib file. In this app, the created class is `SimpleTableViewController`.
  2. Modify the header file to make sure the class will implement protocol `UITableViewDelegate` and `UITableViewDataSource`.
  3. Drag the UITableViewController widget to xib file, and associate with member variables.
  4. Two functions `numberOfRowsInSection` and `cellForRowAtIndexPath` are needed for showing data in list.
  5. Fill the data into `table_data` array, and now you have a simple table list.

### Sectioned table view

Class for sectioned table view is `SectionTableViewController`, here is the
prime changes:

  * Use two-level data structure to save section title and row data. Currently an array is used for section title while a dictionary for detail data.
  * Two functions `numberOfSectionsInTableView` and `titleForHeaderInSection` are added for returning section count and section title
  * `numberOfRowsInSection` should be modified to return count in each section.

### Grouped table view

Class for grouped table view is `GroupedTableViewController`, and here is the
changes:

  * Modify the table view widget from _plain_ to _grouped_ in xib file
  * The other things are almost the same with section.

## Add the index

This will add an index to the right side of list, since it need a sectioned
data, so I added it in section table view. Two functions are needed for adding
index. * `sectionIndexTitlesForTableView`: Set the section header string *
`sectionForSectionIndexTitle`: Return the section while clicking section
title.

## Search the list

Search function it added to simple table view. Here are the changes:

  * Add search bar to top of the table view
  * Add function `searchBarTextDidBeginEditing` and `textDidChange` to handle the typing event in search bar
  * Add function `searchBarSearchButtonClicked` to handle search button clicked event

This search result will be shown real time while typing character to the
search bar.

## Response to user click event

This is added to sectioned table view. Function `didSelectRowAtIndexPath` will
handle user click event.