---
author: hzmangel
categories:
- Happy coding
date: '2013-04-25T16:56:17'
tags:
- Programming
- rails
title: Using Rails with Redis
---
I have met an issue recently that the Rails site always returns 502 error for
some page. After some investigation, I have found that the problem is caused
by a long time query of database, which exceeds the timeout value of unicorn
configuration, then the unicorn worker process will be killed and the Nginx
returns 502 to user.

So the solution for this kind prblem is to put the job into some background
task, and use some other method to inform the frontend when job done. Finally
I choose the Redis for this task.<!--more-->First of all, the Redis server should be run on the server, I am using ubuntu
on the server so the command is:

    
    
    sudo apt-get install redis-server
    

After installion done, the server will be started as service in the server.

Then the Rails part. I am using a gem called
[`resque`](https://github.com/resque/resque) for creating background jobs. I
have followed the [RailsCasts #271](http://railscasts.com/episodes/271-resque)
to setup my project, and here is a brief instruction for Rails part:

First a rake task for resque it is needed, which is also listed in the rails
casts site.

    
    
    require "resque/tasks"
    
    task "resque:setup" => :environment
    

Then create workers for the long time tasks in `app/worker` directory. I am
using `sleep` method to simulate the long time task, and then the script will
write some data into Rails cache. Here is the file content of
`app/worker/cache_writer.rb`

    
    
    class CacheWriter
      @queue = :rails_cache
      def self.perform(cache_key)
        sleep 10
        Rails.cache.write(cache_key, "foobar")
      end
    end
    

After worker creation done, I need to update code in the controller to enqueue
job to Redis. Now in the controller, I just need to enque the task to Redis
queue with `Resque.enqueue` and return:

    
    
    class TestCachesController < ApplicationController
      def index
        @foo = Rails.cache.read("foo")
        if @foo.nil?
          Resque.enqueue(CacheWriter, "foo")
        end
      end
    
      def show
      end
    end
    

Now the task can be added to the queue, and we need worker to handle it. The
`bin/resque work` will start a worker process, and the parameter `--queues=`
or `--queue=` can be added to specify the working queue. I have copied some
code from [this page](https://gist.github.com/J-Gull/1060167) to make the rake
can start/stop the workers.