---
author: hzmangel
categories:
- Happy coding
date: '2013-06-20T20:03:56'
tags:
- Programming
title: Some failed attempts on PNaCl
---
Google has released his [PNaCl](http://www.chromium.org/nativeclient/pnacl
/building-and-testing-portable-native-client) project on Google I/O 2013,
which can allow user to write portable native client application. The portable
native client application can be translated to native client program and
executed on supported architecture.

The official toolchain contains clang frontend, which can only be used to
compile C/C++ code to PNaCl application. But the PNaCl application is a subset
of LLVM so I have tried some other languages have LLVM frontend. I am still
working on the solution, and this article is just recording some failed
attempts.<!--more-->### Install PNaCl toolchain

PNaCl toolchain can be downloaded via [Native Client
SDK](https://developers.google.com/native-client/sdk/download), please follow
the instruction for downloading and installing. Here are the commands used
here:

  * `./naclsdk install pepper_canary`
  * `export NACL_SDK_ROOT=/where/you/put/the/pepper_canary`
  * `cd pepper_canary/examples/hello_world; TOOLCHAIN=pnacl CONFIG=Release make`

Chrome is also needed some setup, which also can be found in that page. NOTICE
that the `#enable-nacl-debug` flag can not be enabled, or the PNaCl
application will not be able to
loaded([ref](http://www.ahwkong.com/post/43309281489/native-client-see-only-
status-creating-embed)).

The samples are also avaliable in chrome store, and the link can also be found
on [this page](http://www.chromium.org/nativeclient/pnacl/building-and-
testing-portable-native-client).

### Golang and llgo

The first language I tried is Golang. There is a Golang frontend for LLVM
called [llgo](https://github.com/axw/llgo), and I have tried to use it for
generating LLVM bitcode from Golang program.

`go get` is recommended to install the `llgo` package. The `CGO_CFLAGS` and
`CGO_LDFLAGS` should be set before executing `go get`. I have followed the
steps on the [author's blog](http://blog.awilkins.id.au/2013/05/llgo-on-
go-11.html) for installing:

  * Install Go 1.1
  * Get PNaCl sdk, which contains Clang and LLVM
  * Run `go get github.com/axw/llgo/cmd/llgo-dist`
  * Run `llgo-dist` to build and install runtime

I was tried it on MacOS 10.7.5, but got the error message said `No matching
.ll file for "asm_darwin_amd64.s"`, I have [filed an
issue](https://github.com/axw/llgo/issues/36) and learned from response that I
can set target triple to `x86_64-apple-macosx10.7.0` or `i386-apple-
macosx10.7.0` for solving this.

I have met compile error while compiling runtime by `llgo-dist` command, which
seems because of upgrade of golang to 1.1. So I leave `llgo` there and waiting
for some updates from author.

### Ruby

Another attempt is `ruby`. In ruby 2.0.0, the nacl support has been
integrated, the document can be found [here](https://github.com/csigi/learning
ruby/blob/master/ruby2/ruby-2.0.0-rc1/nacl/README.nacl). During compiling the
ruby source, I have got an `rdoc` error, so I added `--disable-install-rdoc`
to the configue command.

    
    
    $ ./configure --prefix=/tmp/nacl-ruby --host=x86_64-nacl --with-baseruby=`which ruby` --disable-install-rdoc
    

Also I made a symbol link of all directories in includes PNaCl sdk directory
to ruby for solving header file not found error.

    
    
    $ ln -s /home/vagrant/source/nacl_sdk/pepper_canary/include/* ./
    

If running this command on 64-bit OS, please make sure the 32-bit glibc
library is installed, or some binaries may get error.

I have compiled the native executable for ruby, but it can't be executed by
PNaCl binary. I am still investigating on this.

### Next step

I am still trying to write portable native client code with other languages. I
saw the author of `llgo` has made some changes and I will do the test. I will
update my post when got progress.